README.md, before:

# CITES'N'Blocks Exporter

This is a server implementation to export objects from the blockchain of the distributed CITES application and convert them into different file types like XML.

## Getting Started

### Installation

Just clone the repository to your local client.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/cites-on-blocks/cites-on-blocks_exporter.git
```

### Pre-Requisites

The `bootstrap` script should do the most to set up the whole environment on first time starting the server.

**Key & Certificate**
As long as it runs in the `developmen` mode, it also generate a new HTTPS key and certificate.
These are not used in `productive` mode. Please place the related key and certificate at `./certificates/` to get this work.

**Contract Artifacts**
Furthermore the server needs some information about the contract from which to export the data.
Cause this is a separated project from the DApp, this needs to be done once manually by the user for each new deployment.
The server expects two files per contract at the `./data/` directory.
One for the _ABI_ and one including the address of the most recent deployment.
The first object gets generated by _Truffle_ and can be found and copied from the DApp project at `./build/contracts/CONTRACT_NAME.json`.
This only changes when re-compile a new version of this contract.
The second object needs to be created as `CONTRACT_NAME.address` by the user and contains only the address of the block the contracts has been deployed to.
This will change each time the contract gets re-deployed and must be adjusted.
The server will still work on a wrong address, but can't read any data from the contract, so always a `404` gets returned.
Check the log files to be sure this is the problem.

### Startup

If all pre-requisites are fine, the sever can be started simply by using one of the defined _Node_ project targets like `npm run dev` or `npm run prd`.
In special case you can start the server manually with `node src/server.js`. Make sure to define the correct environment variable with `NODE_ENV='my-environment'`.
Be aware that all property files, which are environment specific, need to be extended by this (new) environment.

## Configuration

All configurations for the server have to be defined before startup and can't be changed during runtime.
Each property file is placed at the `./src/confg/` directory.

### General

The general properties is a collection of configuration values, which are not part of one of the following
more specialized topics. The file is called `general_prop.js`.

| Key                  | Description                                             |
| :------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `port_http`          | Port where to listen for HTTP connections.              |
| `port_https`         | Port where to listen for HTTPS connections.             |
| `eth_provider`       | URL to the provider of the Ethereum network.            |
| `cacheFolder`        | Folder as root where to place converted files as cache. |
| `xmlConverterConfig` | Configuration object for the XML-JS converter.          |

### Logging

Property values for logging purpose are defined in the `log_prop.js` file.

| Key              | Description                                                                             |
| :--------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `path_dir`       | The folder where to place the log files.                                                |
| `path_files`     | List of file names the logger can use to log in for different purposes.                 |
| `options_bunyan` | Configuration object for the Bunyan logger. Contains i.a. level, rotating-requency, ... |

### SSL

Collection of values regarding the HTTPS connection with SSL/TSL. Mind that the port used for HTTPS is
defined in the [general properties](#General). The configuration file is called `ssl_prop.js`.

| Key              | Description                                                       |
| :--------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `options_https`  | Configuration object for the HTTPS module.                        |
| `options_sslify` | Configuration object for the SSLify module to enforce encryption. |
| `paths`          | List of paths for files to load used by the bootstrap script.     |

### Contract

This is not a simple property file, but contains a lot of more logic to connect to the Ethereum provider
already. The script is called `contract_prop.js` and contains the following adjustable variables:

| Key          | Definition                                        |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------------------ |
| `dataFolder` | Folder where the contract artifacts can be found. |

All contracts that will be loaded are statically defined in the `./src/constants/contractNames.js` constants
file.

Commit message:

Adjusted the API with new version 1.2.0
Define the new path arguments and also the query argument.
Adjust all descriptions to the new generic implementation.
Fix small issues in the definitions.
Adjust the link URL in the README.

README.md, after:

# CITES'N'Blocks Exporter

This is a server implementation to export objects from the blockchain of the distributed CITES application and convert them into different file types like XML.

## API

The API was defined with the OpenApi standard and can be found on
[SwaggerHub](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/CITES/PermitExportService/1.2.0). Moreover the sources of the
description has take place in this repository as well.

## Getting Started

### Installation

Just clone the repository to your local client.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/cites-on-blocks/cites-on-blocks_exporter.git
```

### Pre-Requisites

The `bootstrap` script should do the most to set up the whole environment on first time starting the server.

**Key & Certificate**
As long as it runs in the `developmen` mode, it also generate a new HTTPS key and certificate.
These are not used in `productive` mode. Please place the related key and certificate at `./certificates/` to get this work.

**Contract Artifacts**
Furthermore the server needs some information about the contract from which to export the data.
Cause this is a separated project from the DApp, this needs to be done once manually by the user for each new deployment.
The server expects two files per contract at the `./data/` directory.
One for the _ABI_ and one including the address of the most recent deployment.
The first object gets generated by _Truffle_ and can be found and copied from the DApp project at `./build/contracts/CONTRACT_NAME.json`.
This only changes when re-compile a new version of this contract.
The second object needs to be created as `CONTRACT_NAME.address` by the user and contains only the address of the block the contracts has been deployed to.
This will change each time the contract gets re-deployed and must be adjusted.
The server will still work on a wrong address, but can't read any data from the contract, so always a `404` gets returned.
Check the log files to be sure this is the problem.

### Startup

If all pre-requisites are fine, the sever can be started simply by using one of the defined _Node_ project targets like `npm run dev` or `npm run prd`.
In special case you can start the server manually with `node src/server.js`. Make sure to define the correct environment variable with `NODE_ENV='my-environment'`.
Be aware that all property files, which are environment specific, need to be extended by this (new) environment.

## Configuration

All configurations for the server have to be defined before startup and can't be changed during runtime.
Each property file is placed at the `./src/confg/` directory.

### General

The general properties is a collection of configuration values, which are not part of one of the following
more specialized topics. The file is called `general_prop.js`.

| Key                  | Description                                             |
| :------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `port_http`          | Port where to listen for HTTP connections.              |
| `port_https`         | Port where to listen for HTTPS connections.             |
| `eth_provider`       | URL to the provider of the Ethereum network.            |
| `cacheFolder`        | Folder as root where to place converted files as cache. |
| `xmlConverterConfig` | Configuration object for the XML-JS converter.          |

### Logging

Property values for logging purpose are defined in the `log_prop.js` file.

| Key              | Description                                                                             |
| :--------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `path_dir`       | The folder where to place the log files.                                                |
| `path_files`     | List of file names the logger can use to log in for different purposes.                 |
| `options_bunyan` | Configuration object for the Bunyan logger. Contains i.a. level, rotating-requency, ... |

### SSL

Collection of values regarding the HTTPS connection with SSL/TSL. Mind that the port used for HTTPS is
defined in the [general properties](#General). The configuration file is called `ssl_prop.js`.

| Key              | Description                                                       |
| :--------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `options_https`  | Configuration object for the HTTPS module.                        |
| `options_sslify` | Configuration object for the SSLify module to enforce encryption. |
| `paths`          | List of paths for files to load used by the bootstrap script.     |

### Contract

This is not a simple property file, but contains a lot of more logic to connect to the Ethereum provider
already. The script is called `contract_prop.js` and contains the following adjustable variables:

| Key          | Definition                                        |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------------------ |
| `dataFolder` | Folder where the contract artifacts can be found. |

All contracts that will be loaded are statically defined in the `./src/constants/contractNames.js` constants
file.
